# linux startup

BIOS ----> BOOT LOADER (GRUB) -----> Initial RAM Disk 

BIOS : Basic Input/Output System , it’s the first piece of software that is run
when a computer is powered on.The BIOS is operating system
independent. Its primary purpose is to test the underlying hardware
components and to load a boot loader or operating system.The BIOS performs a POST, which stands for Power-On Self Test. The
POST performs some basic checks of various hardware components such as
the CPU, memory, and storage devices. Only if the POST succeeds will the
BIOS attempt to load the boot loader.


BOOT LOADER : Once a bootable device has been found, the BIOS will run the boot loader.
Typically the GRUB boot loader will be used,You
will typically see a message or series of messages from the boot loader
which will allow you to interrupt the boot process and interact with the boot
loader. If there are multiple operating systems installed, you can tell the
boot loader which operating system to run.

Initial RAM Disk : The initial RAM disk, abbreviated as “initrd,” is a temporary file system
that’s loaded into memory when the system boots. This file system can
contain helpers that perform hardware detection and load the necessary
modules, sometimes called drivers, to get the actual file system mounted.
For example, if the root file filesystem is stored on an LVM (Logical
Volume Manager) volume, the initrd image will contain the kernel modules
required to mount that logical volume as the root file system. Once the
initrd mounts the actual root file system its job is done and the operating
system continues loading from the real root file system..


The Linux kernel, the initial RAM disk, and other files needed to boot the
operating system are stored in /boot.


The Kernel Ring Buffer : The kernel ring buffer contains messages related to the Linux kernel.

     -> dmesg                   : display list of kernel messages from statup of system
	 -> cat /var/log/dmesg      : //               //                //              //
    